Results: figure 3 (gene expression vs. DNA methylation) (#11)
greenelab/mpmp-manuscript: content/04.results.md

**B.** Overall distribution of performance across 3 gene sets. Each data point represents mean cross-validated AUPR difference, compared with a baseline model trained on shuffled mutation presence/absence labels, for one gene in the given gene set; notches show bootstrapped 95% confidence intervals. "random" = 107 random genes, "most mutated" = 107 most mutated genes, "Vogelstein et al." = 107 cancer related genes from Vogelstein et al. 2013 gene set.
**C, D, E.** Volcano-like plots showing mutation presence/absence predictive performance for each gene in each of the 3 gene sets. The _x_-axis shows the difference in mean AUPR compared with a baseline model trained on shuffled labels, and the _y_-axis shows _p_-values for an unpaired _t_-test comparing cross-validated AUPR values.
](images/figure_2.png){#fig:expression_gene_sets width="90%"}

### Comparing gene expression and DNA methylation reveals widespread redundancy

We compared gene expression with DNA methylation as downstream readouts of the effects of cancer alterations.
In these analyses, we considered both the 27K probe and 450K probe methylation datasets generated for the TCGA Pan-Cancer Atlas.

> Based on the results of the gene set experiments, we considered only the set of cancer-related genes derived from Vogelstein et al.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We performed this comparison using the cancer-related gene set derived from Vogelstein et al. [ref].
```

We used samples that had data for each of the data types being compared, including somatic mutation data to generate mutation labels.
This process retained 7,981 samples in the intersection of the expression, 27K methylation, 450K methylation, and mutation datasets, which we used for subsequent analyses.
The most frequent missing data types were somatic mutation data (1,114 samples) and 450K methylation data (1,072 samples) (Figure {@fig:methylation}A).

> Overall performance across data types for 84 genes from is summarized in Figure {@fig:methylation}B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall performance across data types for 84 genes is summarized in Figure {@fig:methylation}B.
```
I'm not sure you need this line. I think you are better off deleting it and referring to this figure in the line below.
